# learning-navajo

Basic site with dictionary, flashcards, and audio samples to assist with using Conversational Navajo Workbook

## Commands and structure

All audio snippets are in the public folder. Dictionary json file is stored in src/content/words, and are generated by pulling down from a spreadsheet in the cloud. All changes to the dictionary are made in this cloud spreadsheet. Dictionary is updated using the build-content script. If you wish to use a custome dictionary swap it out with your own airtable api and url, or manually add your own dictionary json.

Site uses Nuxt 3, Typescript, and tailwind for style.

For local dev, run

```bash
yarn
```

then

```bash
yarn dev
```

to generate a build run

```bash
yarn generate
```

lastly, if you've added your own dictionary or have access to the main one run the following command to update the dictionary

```bash
yarn build-content
```

## About & FAQ

### What is this?

This site is meant as a companion to the book [Conversational Navajo Workbook](https://rionuevo.com/product/conversational-navajo-workbook-with-cd/) by Garth A. Wilson, and is not meant to replace it as a teaching tool for learning the language of the Dine (Navajo) people. The audio samples contained were isolated from a copy of the pronunciation CD included with the book. This was done to make using the book and creating flashcards easier. The book and pronunciation CD include more tips on pronunciation, along with an entire other CD and collection of exercises.

### Why use the term Navajo instead of Dine?

"Navajo" is a name other groups have used to identify the Dine people. The book uses the Navajo along with Dine, so I've used Navajo as the default term even though that's less than ideal, and should be changed over to
Dine.

### Something is incorrect

If you notice anything is incorrect, please notify me by raising an issue in the [github repo](https://github.com/PatrickByrn/learning-navajo).

### How can I contribute?

The dictionary is stored in a spreadsheet that only I currently have
access to, in order to prevent unwanted edits. I've also added all the
words from the pronunciation section of the book so I don't currently have plans to add any more words. HOWEVER, the codebase is pretty simple and I would be ok with someone else picking up and expanding the project as long as they keep it open and respectful of the Dine people. You're also free to fork the codebase and expand it, or adjust it for other languages.
